Improve intro (#27)
ImperialCollegeLondon/intermediate_grad_school_git_course: index.md

permalink: index.html  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
---

This course introduces intermediate concepts and functionality of the version control

> system Git and the code repository GitHub, focused on ensuring an effective and healthy

Reviewer: phrasing suggestion

```suggestion
system Git and the code repository GitHub. The course is focused on ensuring an effective and healthy
```

Both Git and GitHub provide powerful features that facilitate this process such as:
branching, pull requests, forks, rewriting history with rebase, merge, reset, and
releasing new versions of the software with tags to identify milestones in the
development process.

Moreover, some tasks ensuring that all contributions follow agreed standards can be
automated via a continuous integration system. This course will introduce the basics of
GitHub Actions, how to create workflows and run them automatically, when new changes are
identified.

## Syllabus

- Intermediate Git concepts, commands, and terminology, such as branches, rebase, merge and stash, among others.
- Using GitHub’s Pull Requests to manage contributions from collaborators
- Using GitHub’s Forks to contribute to other people’s code
- Using continuous integration to make sure every collaborator's contribution meets an agreed standard
- Creating releases and adding tags to communicate effectively to users/collaborators what has changed between versions of the code.

## Learning outcomes

After completing this workshop, you will be better able to

> 1.	Use advance Git commands to manage the parallel development of multiple features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.	Use advanced Git commands to manage the parallel development of multiple features
```

2.	Collaborate effectively with others on a code base to achieve larger goals
3.	Apply continuous integration to automate tasks

## Delivery of the course

Material will be delivered as a lecture with task following the Carpentries teaching
style.

- The instructor will walk you through the theoretical material of the course,

>   executing themselves the relevant code or instructions. **You are highly encouraged to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 demonstrating the execution of the relevant code and instructions. **You are highly encouraged to
```

  code along** and execute the instructions at the same time.

> - Throughout the lessons, there are **yellow boxes** highlighting particularly difficult

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Throughout the lessons, there are **yellow boxes** highlighting particularly challenging
```

>   or important ideas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  or important concepts.
```

- There are also exercises in **orange boxes**. The instructor will give you time to try

>   to do them yourselves before going through the solution. This is often available in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to do them yourself before going through the solution. This is often available in a
```

  folded part of the orange box, so you can check it at any time.
- When doing exercises, put a green sticker in your computer whenever you are done, or a

>   pick/orange one if you need support. A helper will go to you.

Reviewer: pink?
```suggestion
  pink/orange one if you need support. A helper will go to you.
```

> - For online sessions, rise your hand if you are done with the exercise and write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For online sessions, raise your hand if you are done with the exercise and write
```

>   directly your question or problem in the chat, so a helper can try to solve it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 any questions or problems directly into the chat, so a helper can try to solve it.
```
